Hey, Mikey, if I wasn't in such
great shape, could I do this?
That's stupid.
What if something goes wrong?
It's not.
Look, I'm not scared.
Hey, I got two kidneys.
You only need one.
No big deal, kiddo.
Stop it.
[MUSIC - KENT CURTNISS,
"TIMING"]
-Really?
-Whoa, sugar, are you all right?
Yeah.
What the heck is the
matter with that guy.
Let me straighten you
up here, sweetheart.
Jake.
I'm sorry.
I'm just trying to help.
Yeah, you just keep
your hands to yourself.
You know, I try, but sometimes
they just get away from me.
I gotta go.
You knock 'em dead, huh?
Not that it'll matter.
And you've gotta believe
in yourself a little bit.
You're gonna do fine.
I know.
Thanks.
We believe in you.
I can smell the wind
of change a-coming.
Maybe that's just Wilbur.
Action is the key
to all success.
That Sophocles?
Picasso.
[MUSIC - KENT CURTNISS,
"EVERYWHERE"]
Who writes this stuff?
Are you kidding me?
[INAUDIBLE] in our schools?
And the actors through these
wild parties which included--
now get this-- wifeswapping!
What the is that?
You're buying their movies!
Think about it!
You know what I
think we oughta do?
Cock the gun, blow
their brains out!
Booyah!
No more--
-Miss Louis?
-Yes.
Katie Dawkins.
I'm here for the interview.
Oh, right.
Have a seat.
You've got 10 minutes.
Sell me.
OK.
Your latest viewer
poll shows that 67%
of Boulder Tonight's
viewers want
more positive news stories.
Yet, your-- your show
continues to fill
the air with political unrest,
celebrity scandal, crime--
You think you're going to
get a job here by telling
me what I'm doing wrong?
-No.
Which satellite do you
want for the Bloomboy story?
Chris already knows.
Ask him about it.
No, there just might be
space for more a upbeat story.
Look, I've done my research.
Just let me show
you one interview.
I know I have a story here.
I have nine minutes
left, don't I?
Yeah.
OK.
Our research has shown that the
same deep brain structures that
are activated when we receive
a reward, like money or food,
those very same brain
areas are activated
even more when we give to an
organization that we support.
That's a great study.
Paid for with our tax
studies, I assume.
He's the chief scientist at the
National Institute of Health.
They just published his study.
Wow, that's--
that's really great.
Terry--
Katie Dawkins, Mike Wilson,
our lead segment producer.
Terry, I need to talk to you.
Wait your turn.
So what's your angle?
KATIE: Sorry?
Your angle?
Your lead?
For the first time, we have
scientific proof from the NIH
that living a compassionate
life and treating people
with kindness can actually--
MIKE: Oh my god.
Are you kidding me?
Make you happy.
TERRY: Who else do you have?
-Oh come on.
Tell me you've get some
politicians, celebrities,
hot models, anything?
You can't come in here with
one scientist and tell us
you've nailed down a story.
TERRY: Mike, that's enough.
How about Deepak Chopra?
TERRY: You have Deepak?
Not yet, but I spoke
with his assistant,
and he's going to be
in town this week.
Oh, you spoke with assistant.
That's great.
Why don't you go interview
my-- my cousin Al too?
OK?
Don't waste our time.
Look, Terry.
TERRY: Miss Dawkins,
I'll give you a shot.
Strictly freelance until
you prove yourself.
No, no, no.
That-- that's fluff.
We don't do fluff, OK?
Your rules, not mine.
Well, maybe we should start.
MIKE: I mean, she's a rookie.
Look at her.
I know.
That's where you come in.
Oh, no, no, no, There's
no way that you--
Stop.
You know that weekend
anchor position?
Ah, you wouldn't dare.
What about the Senator?
Mike, I need an experienced
reporter on this.
Full story, ready for a
rundown, 5 o'clock Saturday,
not a minute late.
And it better
knock my socks off.
What we discovered was that
the reward systems of the brain,
which are located very deep
in primitive brain areas,
were activated when
people received
money, which is expected.
Other researchers have
shown that same thing
for many decades now.
However, what surprised
us was when people donated
to nonprofit organizations,
were willing to give money,
to take it from their own
savings that we gave them
and donate it to
an organization,
the same reward systems in
the brain became activated.
And not only were they
activated in a similar way,
they were actually more
activated than when
people simply received money.
So that was a big
surprise to us.
There is a feeling of
euphoria that many people
describe giving back to people,
doing charity work, and so on.
Good morning.
Ah, you're always
bringing us fresh coffee.
And you're always taking it.
Well, I wouldn't wanna be rude.
So where's the job
interview today?
No interview.
I got the job, Boulder Tonight.
You mean those guys over at--
Hey, it's a job, isn't it?
Besides, if I
didn't get one soon,
I know someone who'd be out
of their morning coffees.
I like my coffee like I like
my women-- in a plastic cup.
Where does he get these?
I dunno.
One day, it's Albert Einstein.
The next day, it's Eddie Izzard.
All right, guys.
I gotta go.
Well, you know
'em dead, sweetie.
Thank you.
You know, she ain't bad.
No, not her.
The new girl over there.
Oh, it's been a long time
since I rock n' rolled.
Albert Einstein?
Led Zeppelin.
You know, I never
know with you.
(SINGING): You're
wondering if I'll miss you.
Oh, in my heart, you'll always
be there every step of the way.
I'm so gonna miss you.
You're my best friend
in the whole world.
Believe me when I tell
you, you're so incredible.
Don't you know
you're unforgettable?
[TYPING]
We've known for over
20 years that people
who are compassionate and
empathic with other people
have a sense of fulfillment.
They have what has been
called the helper's high.
Mind if I drive?
I guess not.
I need tighter, shorter
cuts if you're ever
gonna get this on here, OK?
I assume you have
some B roll for this?
Put it right in there.
People who do volunteer work,
compassionate, empathic work
in which they deeply
care for someone else,
have not only a
sense of well being,
often a sense of euphoria,
they also have increase
in their health profiles.
They get sick less.
That's better.
Thank you.
Yeah, whatever.
So who else do you
have in the can?
Well, we have Dr.
Dossey, and Dr. Grafman.
OK.
So I guess the rest
of the interviews
are just gonna magically appear.
Nice.
I believe in this story.
Oh, that's nice, Katie.
All right.
We don't have time for this, OK?
We-- we need names.
We need big names.
And we have, like, five days to
get this going, I don't know--
[BUZZING]
Katie Dawkins?
That's rude.
Yes.
No, thank you for
calling me back.
That would be great.
No, of course.
Thank you.
Yes, thank you so much.
Can we use the studio?
Why?
That was Deepak Chopra.
On your phone?
Yeah, he had time before
his lecture tonight at CU.
He's on his way over.
Wait, wait, wait.
How did you get Deepak
to call you on your--
I told you.
I asked his assistant.
So you brown-nosed.
No, I told you.
I was nice.
Like I said, you brown-nosed.
Giving and receiving are
part of the circulation
process of the universe.
That's how it keeps
itself recycling.
And so, yes, giving people
appreciation, attention,
affection, love, helping
others through their suffering
actually improves your health.
When you have the
experience that
is the intoxication of love--
So you were nice?
Why is that so hard
for you to believe?
That just doesn't usually
work in the real world.
That's all.
Your body simultaneously
secretes serotonin.
Just give yourself a few
years in this business,
and we'll see.
All right.
So what's next on the agenda?
There is the peace conference
in Estes Park on Friday.
Peace conference?
Do I have to repeat
everything I say?
Yes, when it's dumb
enough to demand repeating.
All right?
We're not going to
a peace conference.
It's-- it's the wrong direction.
Serotonin is a hormone that
totally makes you feel happy.
How can a peace conference
be in the wrong direction?
Look, we already have
the warm, fuzzy fluff, OK?
We need some dirt!
The Dalai Lama is speaking.
What if we could get him?
You can't.
What if we could?
Maybe we could get
the house video feed.
OK.
We won't.
All right?
We're not going to Estes.
Some people are afraid
to sort of sacrifice.
They're worried about their own
well being, their own status.
And that's understandable.
But I think what they need to
know if they don't do this very
often is, you're
bound to feel better,
and to feel good when you
engage in generous activity.
And it's not something
simply symbolic,
or something to talk about.
You'll actually feel good.
OK, we have Sue Shapiro
and Bettie Youngs.
We have appointments tomorrow.
No, you have
appointments tomorrow.
I didn't set those up.
We still need more B roll.
You need dirt, OK?
All you have so far is fluff.
All right?
There's no controversy,
no scandal.
Where are your shouting heads?
-My what?
Your shouting heads!
You need a-- you need a Bill
O'Reilly, a Chris Matthews.
Where's you Bucky Frank?
You have gotta be kidding.
I didn't ask you.
Am I supposed to care?
Who is Bucky Frank?
He's some ass on YouTube.
He is the voice of
the fringe, and he
has a huge national audience!
KATIE: Yeah, and
he's just plain mean.
Exactly, a shouting head.
That's what you need
for your interview.
I don't think that's the
direction we wanna go.
OK, well, why don't you go
shoot your fluff interviews,
and I'm gonna go
find a real source.
Anything we do
to turn our minds
and our hearts in a
positive direction,
including actually doing
actions for others,
will have immense benefits.
And it goes further than just
us, but it starts with us.
Next time you're in a shopping
mall, look at another person,
and say to yourself, you know,
that person has-- had parents,
or had parents, just like me.
That person has people who
love him or her, just like me.
That person has moments
of anxiety, just like me.
That person goes through trials
and tribulations, just like me.
That person will get old one
day, and get sick one day,
and will die one
day just, like me.
That person's just like me.
Maybe that person is me.
And then you will
feel the compassion.
There is so much
negativity out there.
We witness so much
uncaring activity
that when we witness
some caring moment,
it's as if the world gets
put right back in balance.
It's as if, yes, that's
how it's meant to be here.
And we feel better.
It's OK.
OK?
Well, it's still fluff.
You know, you say
that word a lot.
All right, so it's--
it's good fluff.
Anything we do to turn
our minds and our hearts
in a positive direction,
including actually
doing actions for others--
It's actually pretty good.
Thank you.
Yeah.
Hey.
You said something nice.
Hey, I didn't mean to.
I didn't think so.
Did you get Bucky Frank?
Is that his name?
Ah.
Oh, you're kidding me.
Anyway, back to you, America.
He embezzled.
This guy embezzled $30 million!
I didn't say cents,
$1 million dollars!
Here's an idea.
Find me a rope and a tall
tree, and then we'd have--
Mike, turn it off.
Are you serious?
You can't like this guy.
No, I never said
I liked this guy.
Then why?
Because he's in the news.
He is the talking head.
Look at that.
Now, he's the best
in the business.
Ugh.
I don't know about you.
-All right.
Fine.
Let's-- let's forget about
Bucky Frank for a minute.
How about a Harvard professor?
Tal Ben Shahar, he teaches a
happiness class at Harvard.
He was just on 60 Minutes
a couple nights ago.
Are you serious?
Mhm.
We leave tomorrow.
For how long?
Just the day, round robin.
That's a long way to go.
Yeah, welcome the news biz.
Who are you texting?
My friends.
Both of them?
Oh, don't mock me, Mike.
At least I have friends.
Others will have
immense benefits,
and it goes further than just
us, but it starts with us.
When we are the recipient of
acts of kindness, where people
go out of their
way to help us, it
allows us to really experience
gratitude at its deepest level.
So it is like angels.
It is like a god or a
goddess visiting us.
That's truly what it is.
And what's important
for us is to feel that
in its fullness, the gratitude.
Because this is what
the world is full of.
The world is full of
kindness, and often we are
not focused on the kindness.
And therefore we don't feel
our hearts in its fullness.
Hey, what do you say?
He can quote anybody.
He knows Glenn Beck's text
all the way, everything.
No?
How about you, lady?
Just a little, uh, you know?
How about it, Buster?
What do you say, huh?
Well, have a nice day
anyway, you son of a bitch.
[SINGING]
Megan?
Roxy.
[PLAYING GUITAR]
Hey, could you move along?
You're scaring
away the customers.
Yeah.
Yeah, sorry.
[SINGING]
Hey, don't just stand there!
Get him!
Oh, great.
-Where the hell is she?
-I dunno.
She took off running
down the street.
What am I gonna to
do with this, huh?
Well, you could
get it back to her.
I don't have time for this.
All right?
What am I gonna do--
Ahh, time is what
we want the most,
but what we use the worst.
William Penn.
-I'm outta here.
Philosophers for
centuries and millennia
have been talking about
our empathic nature,
our sympathies, our sentiments.
And today, psychologists
are showing that this is
very much part of our nature.
Whether it is
something that we do
or something that
we observe, it Is
very difficult to remain
indifferent to an act
of kindness.
That's OK.
Long day.
How about we wrap
this up in the morning?
No argument here.
All right.
You play guitar?
No.
No, belongs to some
street musician.
And you have it because?
Because I can't find the girl.
She ran away.
Well, did you look inside?
Name, number?
How is this my responsibility?
Hey, what's with
the 20 questions?
Hey.
No, I'm sorry.
I think I'm just a
little stressed out.
How about we-- we
leave for breakfast?
-Sure.
-All right.
Look, it's not like
it's a bad thing.
I don't know how
you can say that.
I take care of me, all right?
It's simple, and it works.
It works?
How?
I've got my Audi.
I-- I've got a condo in Boulder.
I'm gonna be anchor at BTV.
KATIE: And then what?
What do you mean and then what?
Are you happy?
Yeah.
Well, I will be
when I get anchor.
Really?
Because the condo and
the car didn't do it.
Wow.
Who are you?
Katie Couric?
All right, fine.
What makes Katie happy?
My religion is kindness.
That is so stupid.
KATIE: Why?
Because you can't be
happy all the time.
KATIE: Why?
You just-- did
you make that up?
Who said that?
-The Dalai Lama.
-No, no, no.
We are not going--
we are not going
to your stupid little
peace conference.
You're going the check.
If that'll make you happy.
When you're a recipient
of a good deed,
it's sometimes affects
you in a very special way.
I remember some months
ago now, I was serving
refugees in East Africa.
They were very poor.
We were in one of the
rooms of a refugee.
And at a certain point, he
asked me for my classes.
I was one that while not
wearing glasses now, I did then,
and I really needed them.
So I gave them over
somewhat reluctantly.
He took a fresh piece
of tissue, and he
wiped the glasses
very carefully,
and then gave them back to me.
And I asked him why he did that?
And he said, you
know, we're here,
and you're doing
all this for me.
And I-- I don't know
how to thank you.
I saw there was dust
on your glasses,
and I thought that
might be a way.
There was a really
interesting study
done years ago at Harvard.
And they set out to discover
what effect did watching
positive things going on,
a positive act of kindness,
for example.
So they took a number
of participants
through this study.
And they were young
and old, from very
different backgrounds.
And they-- so the participants
watched a two minute clip.
And in this two minute clip--
it could be of Mother Theresa.
It could be just
someone building--
helping someone
build a playhouse
for someone, and so on.
And two remarkable
results came to the fore.
The first was that
people immediately
expressed a desire-- you know,
I need to get involved too.
I need to help out
more, whether that
was at home, or in their
community, or at work.
And the second
thing that happened
was that an antibody in
the saliva increased,
came to the fore right away.
And that antibody is very
significant, because it
increases the immune system.
Donovan's in town.
Really?
Yeah, stopped by to see
me about an hour ago.
He's got a gig
nearby here tonight.
Wait, wait, wait.
Donovan the musician?
That-- that Donovan?
He came to see you?
Yeah, he came to see me.
Who the hell is this guy?
This is Mike.
He's working with me
on the serotonin story
I told you about.
-This is Jake and Ross.
-Pleasure.
KATIE: Jake was a roadie
for Donovan, what?
In the '70s?
Yeah, you oughta interview
him for your story.
I can get you in touch
with his manager.
Donovan'd be great.
-Yeah.
No, yes, definitely, yes.
KATIE: Donovan?
You're sure he's
cutting edge enough?
Do you know anything
about music history?
Huh?
Donovan was an innovator.
He influenced Lennon
and McCartney.
And without Donovan,
there'd be no Led Zeppelin.
Am I right?
Yeah, laughing boy is right.
Led Zeppelin got started during
the Hurdy-Gurdy sessions.
So where's he playing?
Boulder Theater?
At Paramount?
JAKE: He's up in Estes Park.
He's got a peace
conference or something.
That's perfect.
And we can get the
Dalai Lama too.
Estes Park?
No thanks.
KATIE: What?
Anytime we have a
feeling, emotion,
thought, this
ricochets, so to speak,
through the rest of the body.
And there probably
is not an organ
in the body that is not affected
by our thoughts and emotions.
I don't have a problem.
If you begin with
this understanding,
it's not so surprising, then,
that positive emotions might
have positive effects
on the rest of the body,
and thereby increase
someone's health.
One of the difficulties
in the way in which we live
in the world today with the huge
population we're dealing with,
and the bills that
we have piling up,
and the family problems,
and the mother-in-law,
and all of the difficulties
that we're dealing with,
is we stop feeling
grateful as to what's
actually good in our
lives, and we start
focusing only on what's wrong.
And pretty soon, everything
that's wrong in our lives
starts to get bigger and
bigger, because that's
what we're focusing on.
Positive emotions in
general are good for us.
For example, they strengthen
our immune system.
People who enjoy many
positive emotions,
who are more optimistic,
actually live longer.
So when we do an
act of kindness,
when we commit an act of
kindness, when we help another
and we feel better
about it, we're actually
benefiting ourselves,
not just psychologically,
also physiologically.
We do become healthier.
How are those two coming along?
They're going to Estes.
Really?
I thought he hadn't
been back since-- this
could be interesting.
I'm going to lunch.
Let me know what you find out.
Will do.
I'm taking notes.
Anybody else you really
want to see up there?
Uh-uh.
The Dalai Lama, maybe?
-Hmm?
-Eh, maybe.
All right.
-We're good.
Tripod, camera bag, and
you're sure we're all set up?
I told you, I spoke
with his publicist.
She said no problem.
No problems scare me.
What else do you want me to do?
Nothing.
Let's load up.
Is that yours?
Yes.
Rough week, huh?
Yeah.
Mike or the assignment?
Both.
So how did you
get him to go home?
You're going to Estes
Park, aren't you?
Mike is from Estes Park?
Oh yeah, both of us.
I went to school
with his sister.
He hasn't been back in forever.
I think he likes you.
I'm pretty sure he hates me.
Yeah, it's a thin
line, isn't it?
MIKE: Come on.
Let's go.
Uh, yeah.
Have fun.
When we watch an act of
kindness, when we see someone
doing good to one, another
person, or to ourselves,
it allows us to
experience on all levels.
It brings in the energy that
is the source of the action.
And this energy is higher force.
it's the power of our
own consciousness.
And it exists in
us all the time.
But when we have these that
happen when somebody reaches
out to us in a time of need,
or not even a recognized need,
it opens something in us.
It's like a door
opens in our heart,
and we can go in, and
experience the higher
states that are inside of us.
And it's a beautiful
part of life.
If we didn't do those
things, it would
be a very, very sad universe.
So it's not a sad universe,
it's a joyous universe.
So where is she?
I don't know.
She said she'd meet us here.
Hi.
You must be Katie.
Julie.
Hi, this is Mike.
Hi.
Thank you so much
for doing this.
Oh, it's my pleasure.
Now, you guys have press passes
to the Dalai Lama's speech.
That's tonight in
the music at 7:00.
And most of the other
interviews are all set.
Great.
What about Donovan?
I'm afraid I have
some bad news, there.
Donovan is not
gonna be available.
What?
I'm so sorry.
He was delayed from LA.
He's barely gonna make it
in time for his concert.
All the interviews
have been cancelled.
Yeah, thanks, Julie.
Nice job.
No problem?
Mike, I'm sorry.
You said no problem.
Now what, Katie, huh?
You wanna interview the
hotel manager, maybe
a couple of maids?
I have a great idea.
We can interview
that guy over there
that's trimming the hedges.
Hahaha, what a scoop!
Please, calm down.
No, you do not get to
tell me how to feel.
There's a chance we
could still get the scoop.
God, Katie, don't you get it?
It's not happening.
It's over!
Where are you going?
Your equipment's inside, OK?
Go get your little interviews.
I can't do this by myself.
I don't care!
I don't care about
you, and I don't
care about this damn story!
I have a great idea, huh?
Why don't you grab your camera,
and you can interview me, huh?
Wouldn't that be perfect
for your little--
your little fluff piece, huh?
Then you'll have both
sides of the story.
Please, stop it.
MIKE: No, no, no.
Go ahead.
I'll be right here.
No.
You think you have all
the answers, don't you?
Huh?
Just be nice, just be kind!
It doesn't work
that way, all right?
In the real world, good
deeds don't make you happy.
They ruin your life!
I'm so sorry.
I messed up.
Don't.
I will take care of it.
We can set up down
in the music room.
I feel so bad
about all of this.
Don't.
That was not your fault.
He's kind of a--
A jerk.
I know.
Sometimes, I lose my temper.
Sometimes, there is no
longer any compression.
But generally-- generally,
I think quiet compassion
is the right attitude.
All major religious tradition is
love, compassion, forgiveness,
mainly, love and compassion.
[BUZZING]
Hello.
I know.
I got the last room.
You took the car.
What was I supposed to do?
No.
That's not a good idea.
OK.
Room 217.
DALAI LAMA (FROM
COMPUTER): Compassion.
[INAUDIBLE] forgiveness is
to [INAUDIBLE] Children who
receive constant
affection from home,
they study much better, even
physical growth is better.
And those children who are
lacking parents' affection,
or worst case, even abuse, then
their mental health as well
as physical health much poorer.
Feeling gratitude, feeding
feeling thankful, counting
our blessings is much
more than just, oh,
I'm so glad that's happened.
It's a much deeper
place of saying, yes.
I'm actually really glad
these people are in my life,
or this is what's happening to
me, because there are blessing.
In every difficult
situations, there
are lessons that we can find.
And when you find those
blessings, even in the worst
situations, it takes
away the negativity,
and it gives us something very,
very positive to focus on.
And where we put our focus,
that's where our energy goes.
Acts of kindness
are contagious.
So when we see someone doing
a nice thing for another,
we're much more likely to do the
same for someone else as well.
[KNOCKING ON DOOR]
Can I come in?
-You're sleeping on the floor.
-OK.
Have to make effort, and in
order to carry proper effort,
firstly, we need some
visions in our mind.
We help of sense of compassion,
then I think we can build
better world, happier world.
So what happened today?
Tomorrow is my
sister's birthday.
We grew up here.
When my parents died,
I moved, and I haven't
been back in eight years.
And your sister?
When was the last time
you talked to her?
MIKE: Eight years ago.
Well, where is she now?
She's still here.
I'm going to bed now.
Good night.
[MUSIC - KENT CURTNISS, "NOISE
OF THE WORLD"]
You been up long?
A while.
So you grew up here?
It's beautiful.
You OK?
You wanna talk about it?
-No.
-Didn't think so.
Can't be far from here.
What's that?
Your sister's place.
Sorry.
Come here.
I wanna show you something.
We don't need any scientist's
sort of help, no need
technology, no need
medicine, but from birth we
wanted to have this potential.
I think more compassionate
person, more compassionate one,
finds better-- better friends.
Individual remains always
fight, always quarrel.
Very little affection to other.
And such person find more
difficult to genuine, trusted
friendship.
When you have the experience
that is the intoxication
of love, your body
simultaneously
secretes serotonin, dopamine,
oxytocin, and opiates.
serotonin is a hormone that
not only makes you feel happy,
but it also increases
self-esteem.
Dopamine is an antidepressant.
Opiates make you feel high.
And oxytocin is a
pleasure hormone.
It even goes up when,
for example, people are
experiencing sexual pleasure.
So you have a hormone
that mediates happiness,
a hormone that
mediates self-esteem,
a hormone that makes
you feel intoxicated,
and another hormone
that makes you
feel pleasurable or pleasured.
There's no drug that can
do that simultaneously,
all these different things.
Every person's gonna feel
something slightly different,
but I think maybe the best
way to say it is a warm glow.
I think this is our
warm glow areas.
We feel-- we feel good.
It just makes us feel good.
You wanted to know.
Megan loved this place.
I'm sorry.
I don't follow.
This is where we
spread her ashes.
Oh, you said--
I said she was still here.
Still is.
I was doing it the wrong way.
MIKE: She didn't make it.
Mike?
She did a good thing,
and-- and she died for it.
I killed my sister.
-You didn't kill your sister.
-Yeah?
Then who did?
[SOBBING]
Well, truly, actions
that are done selflessly,
that are done for the benefit
of others, come from a state
of being that is-- is freer.
So it's coming from
a place that isn't
full of tension and worry.
It's just flowing
out of a person.
And the recipient of any
kind of kindness like that
experiences that flow,
because it's a universal flow.
It's an interconnected
flow we're all part of.
We feel better emotionally.
We feel better mentally.
But we also can experience,
because our minds change
in those actions, because
our emotions change,
and we are lifted out of the
state of tension or darkness
that we may have been in.
It begins to change
the physical condition.
It changes us at
a molecular level.
Scientists are
beginning to see that it
changes the molecules that exist
if we change the conditions.
An action is powerful,
because it brings
together thought, mind, body.
It brings all of
these together in one,
has a powerful
impact radiates out.
It's the source of our karma.
We change our karma by
the actions that we do.
This is how things change.
I volunteer because
that's-- I started
since I was in kindergarten.
So it's how I've been
raised, and it just makes
me feel good all the time.
It's very hard to get kids
interested in volunteering.
I mean, they kind of see
it as a one-way street,
but if you can really feel the
warmth of being able to help
someone, it's quite amazing.
With seniors, when we
go to the senior center,
but when we play the bingo
with them, when they see,
like, how we help them, it
just-- they start laughing.
And it feels good when they
laugh, and it makes you laugh.
So it makes me feel good
that they feel good.
There was a phenomenon
that was investigated
back in the '70s and '80s
called the helper's high.
And people who experienced
this sense of euphoria
had a better health
profile after doing
this compassionate
work were people who
did this hands-on dirty work.
Now you might think,
well, I can do
charitable-- charitable
work by simply writing
a check to my favorite charity.
This wasn't correlated
with better health.
The people who've experienced
the euphoria, the sense
of optimism and
fulfillment were people
who really did hands-on
work in some sort
of charitable situation.
When I saw that
little girl in street,
I guess it took me by surprise.
What girl?
The street performer.
Did you ever get
her case back to her?
No, but I did find her name
and number inside the case,
just like you said.
Her name's Roxy.
I called her parents, and
they said she is a runaway.
It's like the fifth
time she's done it.
That is so dangerous.
Yeah, I guess she-- she
wants to be a singer.
So every chance she gets, she
hops on a bus to the next city.
Are they gonna come get her?
Yeah.
Yeah, I asked 'em to
meet me over at-- over
at the studios tomorrow night.
Hey, you did a good thing.
Yeah, well, you don't
have to tell anybody.
We have to remember some of
that is gonna be [INAUDIBLE]
Where have you been?
I've been calling your
cell the last hour.
I'm sorry.
We must've--
You got the interview.
He staying another day.
I guess he loves it here.
-Who?
-Donovan.
-Yes, noon today.
We have a 5 o'clock deadline.
Yeah, OK.
Yeah, set it up.
OK.
I want you to be happy.
And in you being
happy, I will be happy.
[MUSIC - KENT CURTISS,
"EVERYWHERE"]
The sound of music can
produce the serotonin in me.
And the sound of making
that music, I believe,
can produce it in others.
Ah, no problem.
We've got what?
Some quick edits,
voiceover work.
Just fine.
That's cutting it close.
Jake, what's going on?
Wilbur disappeared.
KATIE: Oh no.
We can't find him anywhere.
We've looked all over the place.
OK.
What happened?
Who's Wilbur?
Ross's dog.
Mike, I have to help him.
Yeah, I know.
OK.
Go finish.
You don't need me.
Where was the last
place you saw him?
No.
KATIE: Mike, I have to.
Not-- I mean I gotta help.
You're gonna miss the deadline.
Yeah, I know.
it's OK.
So, Jake, what happened?
Ross fell asleep
about an hour ago.
When he woke up, no Wilbur.
OK.
We're gonna need a
little extra help.
That ain't gonna do any good.
We've tried.
Nobody gives a damn about
us, much less a dog.
We'll see about that.
Texting more friends?
Yeah, we're gonna need
all the help we can get.
All right, well, I'll-- I'll
head to the flat irons then.
KATIE: OK, I'll go
the other direction.
You stay here with Ross
in case Wilbur comes back.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Wilbur?
Wilbur!
Yea big, white, really scruffy?
-No, sorry.
-OK, thanks.
Every time we pass
out food, it makes
me smile when they
say thank you,
or you did a great
job at the end.
It makes me feel
good on the inside.
It makes me burst
with happiness.
Three kinds of love,
the instinctive love,
which the mother or father
has for the child when
the child's about to stumble.
You have got no control
over that kind of love.
The second love, they
say, is emotional.
I feel good when you love me.
If you don't love me,
I'm gonna feel bad.
Now that can't last, because
it relies on another one
making you feel happy.
And that's what all the love
songs are about forever.
And it's an extraordinary
I'm in love kind of song.
Then there's the third kind,
love that is conscious.
And you have to actually
use effort for this one.
This is not a biological one.
I-- I just wanna find him.
Just-- just help me find him.
-We will.
We will. we'll find him.
Wilbur.
Where did you find him?
I-- I guess he likes my music.
Thank you.
And so conscious
love is a giving.
So maybe that's when the
sera-- serotonin starts moving.
By the way, where can
you get this serotonin?
I'd like some right now.
Roxy, still have your case.
Oh, thanks.
MIKE: What's wrong?
They won't let me play.
Here on the mall?
No, at any of the clubs.
I can't even get in
since-- never mind.
'Cause you're
under age, you mean.
Yeah.
Look, I gotta go.
I still have to get
your case to you.
Tell you what, can you meet me
tomorrow night, say 6 o'clock,
over at the draft house?
Sure, whatever.
Hey, you have a
place to stay tonight?
Yeah, I found a place to crash.
And it's safe?
Yes, it's safe.
Who are you?
My father?
All right, I'm sorry.
Tomorrow night, 6
o'clock, draft house.
I got it.
I'm not deaf.
What our study indicates
is that the brain
is hardwired, is hardwired,
to give us a feeling
of reward when we donate.
And their feeling of
reward is reinforcing,
and should encourage us to do
that same kind of behavior,
whether it's doing a good
deed in general, again.
Of course, by nature
we are selfish.
But selfish should
be wise selfish,
rather than foolish selfish.
So wise selfish means knows
objectively and realistically
approach.
That's wise selfish.
Taking care more people,
other, you get benefit.
Think just oneself, forget
other, you will lose.
It's about telling
you two got here.
What are you doing here?
Well, it appears two idiots
turned the whole town upside
down looking for a damn dog.
And you know how I hate to
be left out of a good story.
Thanks for your text.
So did you get what you needed?
-Yeah.
Yeah, but we're well
past the deadline.
So I have to cute
some interviews, and--
How long?
At least three hours.
Well, let's get started.
You're the kicker
story tomorrow night.
Yeah, OK.
(SINGING): Many nights
may seem like a dream,
with stars lined on
their streets, none
will shine as bright as you.
New friends, they may come and
go, no one will ever know--
-Not bad.
-Thanks.
Brought your guitar case.
Hey, old on a sec.
I've got a favor to ask.
I've gotta go.
No, no, no, it's-- it's
nothing like that, all right?
Just somebody I
want you to meet.
I think you're gonna like this.
Come on.
Hey, Mike.
Hey.
Is she the one?
She is the one.
What's going on?
My buddy Paul here is
short a singer tonight.
So-- so I wonder if maybe
you could do me a favor
and stand in and play?
You know I can't go in.
I'm only 14.
Oh no.
Is that-- is that true, Paul?
Yeah, I'm afraid it's
true unless you're
with your parents.
-See?
Thanks.
Great favor.
Roxy, are you sure you
wouldn't like to play?
You left this at home.
Came all this way
to hear you sing.
Where's Mike?
He has a show to
do, and so do you.
Rehearsal's in five minutes.
Are you coming?
Yeah.
Can-- can I play
one of my own songs?
We'll see.
Come on inside.
4, 3, 2--
A story from our
newest reporter here
at Boulder Tonight,
Katie Dawkins.
Thank you, Katie.
(SINGING): I knew there'd come
a day that I have to go away,
and I guess you knew that too.
Still, it's hard to say goodbye,
and I can see it in your eyes.
You're wondering
if I'll miss you.
Oh, in my heart,
you'll always be
there, every step of the way.
I'm so gonna miss you.
You're my best friend
in the whole world.
Believe me when I tell
you, you're so incredible.
Don't you know?
You're unforgettable.
Giving something
to somebody else
does not depend on how
much money you have,
or how many physical things
you can give to somebody.
It depends on you being
able to give your heart.
So take care of yourself,
take care of others.
We're all interconnected,
linked in a web of empathy.
If you want to raise
your serotonin level,
if you want to feel
better in the moment,
right now, all that's
really required
is to take a breath, and
smile, and go, and share that
with your fellow human beings.
We are all here together.
We want to live joyously,
and we want to share it.
So we start with right
now, breathe, smile, share.
(SINGING): Some nights
may seem like a dream,
with stars lined on
their streets, but none
will shine as bright as you.
New friends, they
may come and go,
but no one will ever know
me quite the way you do.
Oh, in my heart,
you'll always be
there, every step of the way.
I'm so gonna miss you.
You're my best friend
in the whole world.
Believe me when I tell
you, you're so incredible.
Don't you know?
You're unforgettable.
Life won't be the same
without you by my side.
So please keep these
words in your heart.
I'm so gonna miss you.
You're my best friend
in the whole world.
So believe me when I tell
you you're so incredible.
Don't you know?
I'm so gonna miss you.
You're my best friend
in the whole world.
Believe me when I tell
you, you're so incredible.
Don't you know?
You're unforgettable.
I'm so gonna miss you.
You're my best friend
in the whole world.
You're unforgettable.
I'm so gonna miss you.
You're my best friend
in the whole world.
DIRECTOR: And action.
[INAUDIBLE]
What?
It's very difficult to
remain indifferent to an act
of kindness.
Fuck you, Elena.
What the?
[MUSIC - ROXY KING, "LUCKIEST
GIRL"]
Go placidly amid the and
haste, and remember what
peace there may be in silence.